README.md, before:

# Sonot - Spanish Organ Notation

This software is totally under development.

The main purpose is to enter 16th century spanish organ tablature and translate it into modern formats. Currently supports layouting, live editing and playback of tablature data and (halfway) export to MusicXML.

Framework: Qt5, License: GPL

![Screenshot](./screenshot.png)

Below is some brainstorming, vocabulary and class hierarchy.

## VOCABULARY

      Notes
      /  \
     /    \
    |123456|
     |
    Note

         "Bar"
         /  \     Note
        /    \    | column
        |1 2 |5 6 7 8| row \                . .| ...|
        |2   |7''    | row  > line of score  . | .. |
        |  4 |p   3  | row /                   | .  |
        \                                          /
         \--------------NoteStream----------------/

          *top annotation
    |1   |p 6 7 8|
    |  3 |    8 9|
       *bot. annotation



    page
    |------------|
    | |NN|N |  | | row/staff/voice \
    | |N |  | N| | row/staff/voice / line
    |            |
    | |N |N | N| |
    | |NN|N |N | |
    |------------|
       || || ||
        column


## GENERAL DATA

### Note
- note (c,d,e,f,g,h,a) or special (Space, Rest, ..)
- octave
- accidental

### Notes
- length (number of notes per row)
- data[length] of Note

### Bar
- rows (number of rows per bar [must match NoteStream's])
- data[rows] of Notes

### NoteStream
- rows (number of rows [must match each Bar's])
- bars (number of bars)
- data[bars] of Bar
- tempo
- annotations

### Score::Index
- stream
- bar
- row
- column

### Score::Selection
- Score::Index from, to
- create NoteStream from selection
- clipboard

### Score
- data[] of NoteStream
- Score::Index

### ScoreEditor
- undo/redo
- add/del/change
    - setScore(Score)
    - insertNote(Index, n)
    - insertBars(Index, QList<Bar> rows)
    - changeNote(Index, n)
    - changeBar(Index, b)
    - deleteNote(Index)
    - deleteBar(Index)
    - deleteStream(Index)
- Qt signals
    - scoreChanged()
    - noteValuesChanged(QList<Index>)
    - barsChanged(QList<Index>)
    - streamChanged(Index)
    - notesAboutToBeDeleted(QList<Index>)
    - notesDeleted(QList<Index>)
    - barsAboutToBeDeleted(QList<Index>)
    - barsDeleted(QList<Index>)
    - streamsAboutToBeDeleted(QList<Index>)



## GUI/DRAWING

### TextItem
- alignment
- font
- bounding-box
- margin

### ScoreItem
- Score::Index, ScoreDocument::Index
- note, line, TextItem, ...
- bounding box
- draw()

### PageAnnotation
- TextItem[] (title, header, footer, pagenum, ...)

### PageAnnotationTemplate
- PageAnnotation[] (1st, odd, even, last, ...)

### PageSize
- width/height (mm)
- preset

### PageLayout
- PageSize
- page margins[odd/even]
- portrait/landscape
- PageAnnotationTemplate

### ScoreLayout
- row spacing
- line spacing
- note spacing
- min/max Bar width

### PerPage<T>
- per-page (or finer) instance of T

### ScoreDocument
- Score
- ScoreEditor
- PageLayout (PerPage)
- ScoreLayout (PerPage)
- PageAnnotation (PerPage)
- createScoreItems(Score)
- updateScoreItems( from_editor_signals )
- ScoreItemForPagePos()
- ScoreItemForScoreIndex()

### ScoreView
- ScoreDocument + editor
- renderPage(QPainter*, pageIndex)
- editing

### todo
- doubling length of a bar (for selection)
- temperament (generalized pythagorean/mean tone tuning for synth)
- attach pdf files with page-number to scores
- (OK) rename 'part' to 'section'
- (OK) play note on cursor move

Commit message:

double/half note length edit action

README.md, after:

# Sonot - Spanish Organ Notation

This software is totally under development.

The main purpose is to enter 16th century spanish organ tablature and translate it into modern formats. Currently supports layouting, live editing and playback of tablature data and (halfway) export to MusicXML.

Framework: Qt5, License: GPL

![Screenshot](./screenshot.png)

Below is some brainstorming, vocabulary and class hierarchy.

## VOCABULARY

      Notes
      /  \
     /    \
    |123456|
     |
    Note

         "Bar"
         /  \     Note
        /    \    | column
        |1 2 |5 6 7 8| row \                . .| ...|
        |2   |7''    | row  > line of score  . | .. |
        |  4 |p   3  | row /                   | .  |
        \                                          /
         \--------------NoteStream----------------/

          *top annotation
    |1   |p 6 7 8|
    |  3 |    8 9|
       *bot. annotation



    page
    |------------|
    | |NN|N |  | | row/staff/voice \
    | |N |  | N| | row/staff/voice / line
    |            |
    | |N |N | N| |
    | |NN|N |N | |
    |------------|
       || || ||
        column


## GENERAL DATA

### Note
- note (c,d,e,f,g,h,a) or special (Space, Rest, ..)
- octave
- accidental

### Notes
- length (number of notes per row)
- data[length] of Note

### Bar
- rows (number of rows per bar [must match NoteStream's])
- data[rows] of Notes

### NoteStream
- rows (number of rows [must match each Bar's])
- bars (number of bars)
- data[bars] of Bar
- tempo
- annotations

### Score::Index
- stream
- bar
- row
- column

### Score::Selection
- Score::Index from, to
- create NoteStream from selection
- clipboard

### Score
- data[] of NoteStream
- Score::Index

### ScoreEditor
- undo/redo
- add/del/change
    - setScore(Score)
    - insertNote(Index, n)
    - insertBars(Index, QList<Bar> rows)
    - changeNote(Index, n)
    - changeBar(Index, b)
    - deleteNote(Index)
    - deleteBar(Index)
    - deleteStream(Index)
- Qt signals
    - scoreChanged()
    - noteValuesChanged(QList<Index>)
    - barsChanged(QList<Index>)
    - streamChanged(Index)
    - notesAboutToBeDeleted(QList<Index>)
    - notesDeleted(QList<Index>)
    - barsAboutToBeDeleted(QList<Index>)
    - barsDeleted(QList<Index>)
    - streamsAboutToBeDeleted(QList<Index>)



## GUI/DRAWING

### TextItem
- alignment
- font
- bounding-box
- margin

### ScoreItem
- Score::Index, ScoreDocument::Index
- note, line, TextItem, ...
- bounding box
- draw()

### PageAnnotation
- TextItem[] (title, header, footer, pagenum, ...)

### PageAnnotationTemplate
- PageAnnotation[] (1st, odd, even, last, ...)

### PageSize
- width/height (mm)
- preset

### PageLayout
- PageSize
- page margins[odd/even]
- portrait/landscape
- PageAnnotationTemplate

### ScoreLayout
- row spacing
- line spacing
- note spacing
- min/max Bar width

### PerPage<T>
- per-page (or finer) instance of T

### ScoreDocument
- Score
- ScoreEditor
- PageLayout (PerPage)
- ScoreLayout (PerPage)
- PageAnnotation (PerPage)
- createScoreItems(Score)
- updateScoreItems( from_editor_signals )
- ScoreItemForPagePos()
- ScoreItemForScoreIndex()

### ScoreView
- ScoreDocument + editor
- renderPage(QPainter*, pageIndex)
- editing

### todo
- fix selection display for more-than-one-line
- temperament (generalized pythagorean/mean tone tuning for synth)
- attach pdf files with page-number to scores
- (OK) doubling length of a bar (for selection)
- (OK) rename 'part' to 'section'
- (OK) play note on cursor move
- (OK) single note change undo (do not merge data)
